This is the world's strongest man in
2019,
Martine Leites. And today he's going to
take me through four main strongman
events. You're going to squat down, make
your titties big. Good. Pack your back.
Full deadlift. Stand all the way up.
Good. Then squat
deep. Yeah. Right your sternum. So up
and then Yes. And elbows stay tight in
here. There you go. And then drive.
Nice. That look good. How heavy is this
as it is? So, right now, this guy is 51
lb. We'll use this to get like the
technique down. Yes. Then we're going to
see if we can get to the middle weight
log and then maybe the big one. We'll
see. Event number one, the log. And my
only goal here is to use the same log
they use in competition. What is this?
This is 70. It's not that much heavier.
Okay. Can I see what it looks like you
doing this? Yeah. Keep in mind that this
is the middle weight log and not the
heavy log. And later on, we're going to
be doing stuff much harder, like lifting
stones that weigh more than me. Yeah.
Nice, dude. Yeah. Oh, that felt so much
more natural. Yeah. Let's go. Stay and
looking like a pro. I got Well, thank
you. Do you want to go heavier or do you
want All right, here we go.
[Music]
Nice.
Tension. Yeah. Nice. Really tight,
brother. You know what to do. Boom. Oh,
hold on. Oh, yeah. You know,
yo.
Yes, dude. After some super secret tips
and tricks, I was ready for one more
attempt to make it clean. And then the
big lock. That's good. Yeah. Right. You
know what to do.
Whip it through.
And then maintain that tension. Try it.
Go.
Oh,
that was way better. Yes. Way. Still
shaky, but that was better. Giving it
the pause. At this point, I don't think
anybody really thought I could do the
big log, but we might as well try,
right? Should we just go for it? See? We
just go for it. See what happens. The
worst that happens, I just drop it,
right? Yeah. Oh my goodness. It It's not
even like that much bigger, but it is.
It's that much bigger. Yeah. And this is
the biggest diameter we'll do in
competition. How heavy is it without any
plates? So, right now 134. 134. And
remember, we still have three more
strongman events after this. This video
was sponsored by me. I have a newsletter
that goes out every week called the
stretch that centers around health and
fitness and of course flexibility. I am
currently going through a fast right now
and I am 70 hours into it. My goal is
120 hours, which is 5 days, and that
newsletter is going to come out very
soon. If you want to read about it,
please sign up using the link in the
description. Now, let's see if I can
lift that competition
log. All right, here we
go. Double down on the good habits and
double down on the force.
Yep. Position.
Oh, holy. That's crazy. You can do this.
I really believe you can do this. You
think I can? Yeah. Try one more time.
You think I should try it again? Yeah.
With some chalk right here. Chalk. I
know that you will don't think you need
it, but it might help. So, right where
logs home. Okay. At first, I was
completely skeptical of putting the
chalk on the shirt, but apparently as
you lift it, it keeps the log stuck to
you. And as you can see right here, it
obviously works. Jump into it. Drive it.
Oh my god. Oh my god, dude. That is so
within reach. So within reach that is
there thing I want you to stop thinking.
All right, here we go. Come
on, David.
No thinking. Send it. Grip it. Yep. Feel
the heels and drive.
[Applause]
[Music]
Oh my god. Yeah. So that answers that
question. Can I use the same log that
they would use in competition? I can
barely. That feels good, right? That
feels great. Yeah, that felt amazing.
Most people don't progress that quickly
in one day. That's rare. Event number
two, farmer walks. Let's see if my
strongman career peaked with the log or
if I still got more in the tank. Since
these are two separate weights, they're
probably going to like where do I want
to? That's where your upper body
tightness comes in. You want to flex
your lats triceps and push back on my
hand. Push. Yeah, you want to be doing
that with the weight. Yeah. And they
might come in. I like to keep them
parallel. Okay. But if anything like a
little in is fine as well. So I'll just
give it a go then. Right. Give it a go.
Good. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yes, that's
looking perfect.
Good. Yes. That looks good. Yes.
Nice, man. That felt way better. Uh 5
kilos more, 10 kilos. What do you think?
10. Let's go. 10, baby. My max deadlift
that I've ever done, ever, was uh 275.
Yes.
At this point, we've actually passed my
maximum deadlift PR, and they're asking
me to run with it. Go, go, go.
Nice, David. That looks good.
Yes. Good. Yeah. So good. What was that?
Was way harder. Wait, it's heavier. Wait
a minute. There's weight on there. What
happened? Here's what I want you to try
to do. Okay. You're really down. By the
way, this is Sean. You may have seen him
on social media swinging extremely large
swords around or cutting things with
katanas, but he's also an incredibly
competent strong man. Big and tall. Step
forward and keep that big
chest. Go.
[Music]
Oh, so good. I realized head up and then
Oh, it was different. Damn, you're
locking it. It felt much better with the
head up.
Wa. What is
that? Oh, so much speed.
I just assumed you wanted that. I I want
to try it. Yeah.
Two things that you could do. Like I
like to be really narrow my stance
because this is my running stance,
right? I want to be on the train track
cuz if I go wide, I'm going to start
losing energy laterally. If I'm trying
to lift it with the handles out wide,
the weight has to go in first and then
up. Yeah. Versus if I just start narrow
with the weight directly below my
shoulders. Oh, it goes straight up.
Yeah. And then this it doesn't have to
drag in. Right. So, here's the thing.
This is heavy. Yeah. How heavy is this
with it? Oh, these are right. Slightly
less than 200. Oh, no. No. Total. You're
running 400 now. Oh, total pound. 400.
Yeah. Little less than four. Yeah. So,
your goal right now is stand. Yeah. I
then run. Stand first. I'll be happy if
I can pick this up to be honest. It
would be badass. Yeah. Let's go.
Tight triceps, tight lats. Drive, drive,
drive, drive. And then Yes. Let's go.
Come on. Come on. Woo. Wa. Man, that's
amazing. I wasn't going to be happy with
just the stand. You went for it, dude.
That was so awesome. The My head was
really down though. I did. I did. 400
lb. I did. Awesome.
That good? Yeah, it looks pretty good.
Wrap the
thumb. So, your feet were too far back.
Feel it was sliding forward. Your feet
forward. Bring your feet forward.
Squeeze.
Yes. Yes. That's it. Head up. Head up.
All the way. All the way. All the way.
Keep moving. Keep moving. Keep moving.
Keep moving.
More distance. More distance. It's so
hard to explain how this feels, but you
just keep going. And now my only goal
left is to go the full distance. I blew
my own I blew my own mind. Come on,
David. You lock it in. Remember that
reckless abandon you
plug. Yeah. Come on. Move it. Let's
go.
Yes. What?
Oh my god.
Another one that you just crushed. Dude,
I was so proud. That feels like that was
literally untouchable weight though.
Like I've never held that weight in any
way. Like not on my back, not in any way
possible ever. Now you had almost 400 lb
and you went on a little stroll with it.
It's ridiculous. With unmovable weights
now moved. Now it's time to move on to
event three, the sandbag. Treat it just
like a log cleaner with straight arm up
top. I love that I know what that means
now. Yeah. Hands 10 and 2:00 positions.
I typically don't cross them, even
though that's okay. Okay. Uh I like to
teach myself to not rely on that. Oh,
cuz if it gets big, you can't do that.
Exactly. So then I just drive my hips
forward into it, drive my sternum into
it, and then go for a little run, little
pivot, and coming back downhill. Oh my
goodness. This is crazy. That's the
idea. The goal is to lift it. Uh run
somewhere that go the golden car. In
training zs, we go all the way to stop
sign back. I'm good with that golden
car. Okay. So, how much does this weigh?
First of all, that's 100 or 110. 100.
Okay. 100 110 give or take. Let's see.
So, wrap the fingers under there, right?
Yeah. Pull around. Good. And I can wrap,
but you can if you want, but never hand
never elbows down like that.
Exactly.
Nice. Uh-huh. Tight glutes. There you
go. Drive. Drive.
Drive. Little
pivot. Nice, David. Let's go. Beat that
car. Nice, bro. That looked good. Oh.
Oh, that's good cardio. That is carrying
100 lbs on my chest genuinely felt like
I was simulating an asthma attack. Very,
very difficult. But now we're gonna do
it with my body weight on my chest.
There you go.
Okay, that's it. Drive your hips into
it. Yeah, that's it. Uh-huh. Keep that
butt. Keep the butt cheeks tight. Keep
driving your hips forward. That's
it. That's it. Keep gulping for air.
Huh? It's more of like a diaphragm
exercise than anything else. Most of the
quads and back and everything else, but
nice. That was a good run. Oh, that was
epic. Oh, downhill's way easier. Yeah.
Nap time. Nap time. Nap time. That's how
it works. Yeah. Apparently, that's not
how it works because next we're going to
do something way, way harder. You're
going to start with the light bag, run
it to the gold car, back, then the next
bag, gold car, and back. At this point,
I'm not feeling like a strong man. I'm a
very weak man. I heard that right.
Right. The light bag first. All the way
the same distance. Yeah. Start with
green, then you're doing the big one.
So, this is 100 lb. That's 150 lb. Yep.
So, under your body weight, then your
body weight. When you're nice and tired
and don't conserve energy, that's when
you get tired. Copy that. You just got
to
go. It's all just in your head. Drive,
drive, drive, drive, drive. Come on.
That's it. Let's go. Go, go, go, go.
Yeah. Good footwork. Good footwork. Good
footwork. Yep. Yep. Let's go. Bring your
back.
Nice, nice, nice, nice, nice. Good
strides. Good strides. Good strides.
Good strides. Let's go, dude. Come on.
Yep. Don't hesitate. Go into it. Don't
hesitate. That's
it. This is the one that matters. Yep.
Come on. Finish it
strong. David picking up. David, let's
go. This is it. This is it. This is it.
That's the competition feeling. Come on.
Oh my god. Oh. Oh, that's a feeling. Now
that's how it's done.
Oh yeah. Pushed it to the limit. That
was crazy. You need to get to that point
where you're just not even thinking.
You're going. And I love that you did
that. You didn't take an extra moment to
take a few breaths. You went for it.
And now just breathe. 10 minutes.
Are you still friends with us, David, or
was sandbag too much? I'll have to think
about that one. I'm not sure yet. But
next event four, the stone. I allow the
stone to crush my pointer middle finger
on both sides. Same lift as before. Same
all the way up and then drive your hips
into it. Okay. And roll it up here. The
crazy part about this is this is just
step one and the next step is putting it
on our shoulder. But my only goal is to
lift my body weight off the ground.
We'll see. And that's complete lift.
That's a complete lift.
Take your time. Get it right into the
same position as long. And now just do
it.
Yes. Oh, that was so good. That
surprisingly felt good. Yeah, you nailed
it. Thank you. Let's go heavier. All
right, let's do it. Looking good. Yeah,
that's it. Now, widen the stance. Lean
back. Yes. Yep. Like nice, dude. That
looked so much smoother and better.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. It's so funny that this
stone is just a play thing. Like, I know
Martines makes this look super easy, but
believe me, this was heavy, but now
heavier. So, that's a 30 lb jump. Yes,
sir. So, we're going to see some
struggle here. All right. I think I'm
just going to go for it. All right,
brother. You know what to do. Remember
how I said my goal was my body weight?
Well, this is 10 lb heavier. Oh, this is
so much heavier.
Drive, drive, drive. There you went.
Lightweight. There we go. Pull it in.
Pull it in. Higher
chest. Come on. Come on. Going. Squeeze
it in your face. Squeeze it into your
face. Yes. You got it. Come on. Almost
there. Squeeze it into your head. That's
it.
Yes. Yes.
Oh my gosh, man. I am so impressed.
That was badass. At this point, I
thought I was done. I left everything on
that last stone. But now we're going
heavier. Let's see if we can budget this
much off the floor. That is your goal
right now. Okay. An inch off the ground.
Get an inch off the ground. Deep under.
Shoulders
above. Cross your forearms into it.
I got it to roll a bit. Yeah. But we
have one more trick in the book. Uh-oh.
Man.
genuinely feels like impossible, but
like at a certain point you're pulling
and then all of a sudden it like budges
a little bit. It gets light on the
ground, rotates a little bit and for
like there's some hope that it might
move. This is liquid tacky. It's nowhere
near as solid as strong as the actual
stuff. Oh yeah, your forms are going to
be so
sore. That's normal. It's going to be
burned at later time. Just spread
around. My hopes of budging the stone
even a little bit are not very high. But
with this secret weapon, let's give it a
go. Sticky and attacking deep deficit
memory. Wow.
Roll it. Roll it. Roll it. The sternum.
Holy. Good pig moving.
My body has been through the ringer, but
still we push forward. And after a
little bit of coaching, it was time to
give it another try.
Drive it up. Reel it in.
Shimmy your legs in one leg at a time.
Yep. That's it. Get it tight in your
hips and then then reach. Start reaching
forward. Reach forward. Reach forward.
Get tighter in your hip. That's it.
Tighter. Tighter. Tighter.
Okay. I genuinely thought it was going
to be at this weight impossible to throw
on my lap. Yeah, look at that. I also
really believe you could stand with it.
It's just You think I could? Yeah,
because it's like I see the little
things where you're losing a lot right
there. The hands were too close. Too
close. A little bit more coaching.
Martinez wanted me to give it one last
attempt and give it my all. Feeling it.
Oh, I'm very fatigued, but it's like a
really good fatigue. The last last feet
of the day, my friend.
[Music]
Yeah, buddy. Come on. The floor to the
floor. Yep.
[Music]
And unfortunately, not all fairy tales
have a happy end, but it's all about the
journey and the friends we made along
the way. Yeah, this is not the last
time. I'm I'm stoked. Yeah, it's going
to be good.
Stay flexy, I Yeah. Stay flexy and wreck